Add documentation for transportRequestUploadSOLMAN (#2754)
SAP/jenkins-library: documentation/docs/steps/transportRequestUploadSOLMAN.md

# ${docGenStepName}

## ${docGenDescription}

## Prerequisites

* **Solution Manager Account** - user account with according roles for upload
* **Change Document** - the change document the tranport request is coupled to
* **Transport Request** - the target container of the upload

> * **Change Management Client** - installation of the CM Client with needed certificates

Author: the chapter below provide two links.

## Change Management Client

> Access to the Solution Manager is handled via the so-called CM Client.

Reviewer: I personally would remove the "so called".

of the Request and the associated Change Document.
`transportRequestUploadSOLMAN` allows to set these IDs by parameter or to use Git commit messages.
As an additional option, IDs can be passed in via the Common Pipeline Environment. For example through a
step that generates the IDs or obtains them differently.

### By Step Parameter

A parameterized pipeline allows to specify the IDs with the launch of the build
instead of entering them statically into the pipeline.

```groovy
transportRequestUploadSOLMAN(
    script: this,
    changeDocumentId: ${CHANGE_DOCUMENT_ID},
    transportRequestId: ${TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID},
    ...
)
```

The Jenkins pipeline `input` step allows to specify the IDs at runtime of the pipeline.

```groovy
def ids = input( message: "Upload?",
    parameters: [
        string(name: 'CHANGE_DOCUMENT_ID',description: 'Change Document ID'),
        string(name: 'TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID',description: 'Transport Request ID')
    ]
)

transportRequestUploadSOLMAN(
    script:this,
    changeDocumentId: ids['CHANGE_DOCUMENT_ID'],
    transportRequestId: ids['TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID'],
    ...
)
```

### By Git Commit Message

> If the identifiers are neither defined as step parameters nor by the Common Pipeline Environment,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the identifiers are neither defined as step parameters nor by the common pipeline environment,
```

the Git commit messages (`git log`) of the project are searched for lines that follow a defined pattern.

> The pattern is specified by the label _changeDocumentLabel_ (default=`ChangeDocument`) resp.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pattern is specified by the label _changeDocumentLabel_ (default=`ChangeDocument`) or
```

> _transportRequestLabel_ (default=`TransportRequest`). Behind the label a colon,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_transportRequestLabel_ (default=`TransportRequest`). Behind the label, a colon,
```

> any blanks and the identifier are expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
any blanks, and the identifier are expected.
```

```
Release - define IDs for upload to Solution Manager

    ChangeDocument: 1000001234
    TransportRequest: ABCD10005E
```

> The IDs dont need to be defined in the same message.

Reviewer: message --> commit ?

The Git commit messages to be considered are determined by the parameters _gitFrom_ (default=`origin/master`)
and _gitTo_ (default=`HEAD`). The naming follows the Git revision range representation `git log <gitFrom>..<gitTo>`.
All commit messages accessible from _gitTo_ but not from _gitFrom_ are taken into account. If the scanner

> detects multiple IDs, it fails. So the commit range has to be chosen accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
detects multiple IDs, it fails. Therefore, choose the commit range accordingly.
```

> In case of a pull request of a feature branch, the default should be sufficient as long as the transport request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use a pull request of a feature branch, the default should be sufficient as long as the transport request
```

> isn't changed. Only the commits (`HEAD`) that have not yet entered the main branch `origin/master` would be scanned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
isn't changed. In this case, only the commits (`HEAD`) that have not yet entered the main branch `origin/master` are scanned.
```

> If uploading from the main branch, it must be assumed that former change document and transport request IDs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When uploading from the main branch, it must be assumed that former change document and transport request IDs
```

> are already contained in the history. In this case the new IDs should be maintained in the `HEAD` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are already contained in the history. In this case, the new IDs should be maintained in the `HEAD` and
```

> _gitFrom_ be set to `HEAD~1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_gitFrom_ set to `HEAD~1`.
```

```yaml
general:
  changeManagement:
    git:
      from: 'HEAD~1'
```

## Common Pipeline Environment

> If `changeDocumentId` and `transportRequestId` are determined during runtime via the Git commit messages, they are entered into the `commonPipelineEnvironment` and can be retrieved accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `changeDocumentId` and `transportRequestId` are determined during runtime through the Git commit messages, they are entered into the `commonPipelineEnvironment` and can be retrieved accordingly.
```
